#Min Lateness Scheduling
* Input: Release time r
	* Jobs 1,2,...,n {duration - t(j), deadline - d(j)}
* Output: Shcedule s of all jobs that minimises max lateness over all jobs
* Def: An Inversion in a schedule s; is a pair of jobs i, j st. s(i) < s(j)
  but d(i) > d(j)
* Greedy algo: produces scheule gs with *no gaps* where jobs appear in
  *increasing deadline*
	* Produces a schedule with no gaps & and no inversions
	* Fact 1: There Exists such a schedule.
		* Proof is trivial, if optimal done, else shift over if there are gaps
	* Fact 2: All Schedules with no gaps and no inversions have the same
	  lateness.
		* Any two such schedules can only differ in order of jobs with the same
		  deadline.
* To prove that gs is optimal it suffices to prove the following:
	* Thm: There Exists an optimal schedule with no gaps and no inversions
	* Strategy to prove the theorem.
		* Start with an optimal schedule Without loss of generality can assume
		  it has no gaps
		* If it has no inversions: Done
		* If it has atleast one inversion: fix one such inversion without
		  increasing the lateness.
* "Fixing it" Suppose s has no gaps, and has some inversions
	* Claim: s has an inversion involving adjacent jobs in s. say i & j
	* Suppose we have two jobs that are inversions:
		* i, a, b, c, j
		* d(j) < d(i)
		* but if d(i) <= d(a) <= d(b) <= d(c) <= d(j)
		* then i & j are not inversions
		* which implies that d(j) >= d(c) >= d(b) >= d(a) >= d(i)
	* If the inversion is i, j in s simply flip them and we're left with j, i in
	  the new schedule
	* NB:
		1. s' has fewer inversions than s
		2. Lateness of each job != i, j is same in s' as in s
		3. Lateness of j has not worsened
		4. Lateness of i may have increased

#Huffman codes/Optimal compression codes
* Alphabet: finite set of symbols Gamma = {a<sub>1</sub>, a<sub>2</sub>}
* Code for Gamma: Map each symbol in Gamma to a distinct binary string
* Fixed-Length code (eg. ASCII), 8 bits per symbol
	* Looking at english this is very wasteful, for example e which shows up a
	  lot takes the same space as something as rare as z
* Variable-Length code
	* Fixes earlier issue:
		* Short codes => Frequent symbols
		* Long codes => rare symbols
	* We want an optimal code - ie minimises the length of encoding of strings
	  over gamma
	* Ensure that we have unique coding
		* a -> 1
		* b -> 01
		* c -> 010
		* Then the string 0101 could mean:
			* "BB" or "CA"
	* Prefix Codes: no codeword is a prefixe of another.
		* Every prefix code can be represented as a binary tree
		* Every Leaf is a symbol
		* The code is the concatenation of the labels of the unique path from
		  the root to the leaf.
* Optimal code problem
	* Input: Alphabet Gamma
	  For all a (- Gamma, f(a) = frequency of a \\Think of this like a
	  percentage or a probability
	* Output: Binary tree Gamma Representing **optimal** variable-length prefix
	  code of gamma
	* ie a tree T that minimizes the WAD(T) = \Sigma_{a \in \Gamma} f(a) *
	  depth<sub>T</sub>(a)
		* WAD => Weighted Average Depth
